We need to understand the concept
of ROI well, because it is one of
the basic metrics in marketing and
digital marketing.
Why should we understand it?
Well, because we have to
be able to get what we are getting
from the marketing investment
we make.
For the entire marketing plan, and
not only that, but also
we should know how to calculate
it for each of the channels or
investment alternatives we have,
because so we can prioritize
or make decisions, etc.
We have to know how much money
we are getting for every euro
we spend, it's pretty common
sense.
The first thing I'll do is that you
understand how the picture of the
reality of companies is, and that
we have many investment alternatives.
Why is it?
Because we can invest in many different
channels, through different
platforms, with different
cost models, etc.
I'll give you an example so
you can get a little idea.
Imagine, you can invest 50,000
euros in a TV campaign,
which is OneShot.
Or we're investing in Facebook and it's
costing us the cost per click a
little more expensive, at 7 euros,
for example.
Or we can encourage SEO,
encourage Inbound Marketing
strategies, and in this case we
hire an expert in SEO that costs
us company costs, with Social
Insurance, etc., costs us 6000
euros, which you also have to
assign, because it is an investment
in marketing.
Well, as you can see, you have
many options with different
cost models, etc.
So here the challenge is, the challenge
is several, that is, how will we
compare those investments?
How much is each of these investments
being made?
We have to be able to calculate
it to prioritize, because it also
turns out that one of the channels
is not profitable, or there is another
that is much more profitable and
we should prioritize it.
Well, what we have is, as we think
about the funnel, because
we have different formulas to
generate traffic on the
top with very different cost models.
And what we have to do is, let's
see how to calculate the ROI
of each of them.
We'll go to the ROI formula,
which you should be
familiar with.
What is the ROI?
ROI is the profit divided between
the investment.
Well, what is the benefit?
Because the profit is the additional
income that will generate less investment,
which could be the gross margin,
for example, well, there are
different ways to calculate
it, but basically the concept
is this.
So we already have less
profit divided between investment.
But let's bring this to the
terms of digital marketing we know.
What are the additional income?
If we go down the funnel, it
is the number of customers that
will generate that campaign or that
plan, the number of additional
customers by the value that each
of those customers will generate.
We'll capture 1,000 customers and
each of them will generate
5,000 euros throughout their
lives, imagine.
Customer lifetime
value.
What is the investment?
As you can see, it is in the numerator
and in the denominator.
That is, if we calculate it in terms
of customers is very easy, it
is the number of customers we
have captured, so it has cost
us to capture each of those customers.
By the way, we already have it, but we
already have the number of customers,
customer lifetime value and customer
acquisition cost.
There are times when we can use other
sizes, because instead of customer lifetime
value, imagine that instead of thinking
about the number of customers we
think about the number of transactions.
Well, we would do the number of operations
by the average ticket of each
of those operations or sales.
And as for the investment, what we
would consider is the number of sales
of operations so it has cost
us to generate that operation,
which is the CPA, the cost per
acquisition.
But well, after all, as you can see,
it's the same concept, but it depends
a bit on the model.
Well, let's go to the first.
We know what the king is.
The ROI at the end depends on
the number, depends on the customer
lifetime value, depends on the cost
of customer acquisition.
But if you see it in the formula,
we can actually take the number of
customers from the numerator and the nominee.
Therefore, the ROI at the end of
the day depends on what each
of those customers generates and what
we have cost to capture them.
It is easier to manage this, it is
easier to compare between the different
channels, between the different
investment alternatives if what
we are comparing are magnitudes
such as customer lifetime
value or as the cost of customer
acquisition.
So we had the funnel, many investment
alternatives, but we have
to go down altogether.
We have to go to the bottom of the
funnel and calculate, is it worth it,
how much it has cost us to capture
each of those customers and how much
it will generate us.
By the way, there are many companies
that forget about how much they will generate,
that they stay on the previous point
when they make the calculation, that
what they do is compare.
I have a CAC of 10 on
Facebook and I have
a CAC of 15.
But it is that you have to incorporate,
as we have seen, the customer lifetime
value or the average ticket, the revenue
because it is possible that traffic
that comes from one channel or
another, from different origins,
because in some cases they are
better customers who ultimately
buy more.
You cannot lose that perspective.
See also customer lifetime value
and customer acquisition cost.
We start with the cost of
customer acquisition.
What depends on?
It depends.
Up on the funnel depends on the
cost of traffic, how much it is costing
us to attract that traffic.
And here sometimes, as you have seen,
the cost model is different.
In some cases it directly costs
a click, in other cases it costs
a thousand impressions, etc., but
we could equate it in terms of how
much each of the visits is costing us.
Well, and the cost of acquiring
the customer does not depend only
on the cost of the visits, but depends
on the conversion ratio, of what
percentage we will get those
visits to become customers.
Now we have the perspective.
What is the cost of acquiring
a customer?
Of the cost of traffic, of what
costs us up, and in addition to
what we are able to convert,
of the conversion ratios.
By the way, conversion
rates, as you can imagine,
depend on the quality of
that traffic, not just
on us.
That is, you should always keep
it very careful.
When you compare different capture
channels, there are channels that
bring you more quality traffic
and others that bring you less
quality traffic.
And those who have the highest quality
eventually turn more, because it
is people to whom your proposal fits best.
Well, and now what we have to do
is the next step, to see what depends
on the Customer Lifetime
Value.
Well, because the Customer Lifetime
Value also depends on the quality
of that traffic.
If customers who come from a press
ad result that they are, that they
have much less quality and buy
much less, well, because something
we have to keep in mind.
In conclusion, what we have to
do is make the final account, calculate
not only how much it will cost us
for each of those alternatives,
how much it will cost us to
capture a customer, but also we
have to calculate how much value
we will generate that customer.
And so we can already calculate the
ROI, and so we can already compare
the return that each of the investment
alternatives will offer us.